---
title: Diego Bez Zambiazzi's ePortfolio
---

## Table of Contents
* [Professional Self-Assessment](https://github.com/zambiazzi89/zambiazzi89.github.io/blob/main/index.md#professional-self-assessment)
* [Artifact](https://github.com/zambiazzi89/zambiazzi89.github.io/blob/main/index.md#artifact) / [Description](https://github.com/zambiazzi89/zambiazzi89.github.io/blob/main/index.md#description)
* [Code Review](https://github.com/zambiazzi89/zambiazzi89.github.io/blob/main/index.md#code-review)
* [Enhancements](https://github.com/zambiazzi89/zambiazzi89.github.io/blob/main/index.md#enhancements) / [Justification](https://github.com/zambiazzi89/zambiazzi89.github.io/blob/main/index.md#justification) / [Objectives Met](https://github.com/zambiazzi89/zambiazzi89.github.io/blob/main/index.md#objectives-met) / [Reflection](https://github.com/zambiazzi89/zambiazzi89.github.io/blob/main/index.md#reflection)


## Professional Self-Assessment
As someone with a professional background in banking and no previous experience in programming, completing my coursework throughout the Computer Science program was essential in shaping my professional goals and preparing me to enter the computer science field. Important skills learned throughout the course include collaborating in a team environment, communicating to stakeholders, data structures and algorithms, software engineering and database, and security. For instance, the class _CS 310 - Collaboration and Team Project_, where everyone in class worked as a team to develop a jukebox application using Bitbucket, allowed us to gain experience in collaborating in a team environment. Classes such as _CS 250 - Software Development Lifecycle_ and _IT 315 - Object Oriented Analysis and Design_ were also essential for me to understand how organizations approach software development and how to communicate to stakeholders. The class _CS 260 - Data Structures and Algorithms_, which is the focus of my capstone, introduced me to data structures and algorithms, which are necessary skills in this field, especially since most job interviews consist of problems focusing on data structures and algorithms. Multiple classes, including _DAD 220 - Introduction to Structured Database Environments_, _CS 360 - Mobile Architecture and Programming_, _CS 340 - Client-Server Development_, _CS 465 - Full-Stack Development I_, and _CS 470 - Full-Stack Development II_, allowed me to improve my skills and knowledge in software engineering and databases. The diversity of tools used in these classes, such as MySQL, MongoDB, SQLite, Python, JavaScript, and Java, exposed me to numerous ways of creating applications and meeting business needs. Lastly, classes like _CS 405 - Secure Coding_ and _CS 410 - Software Reverse Engineering_ reinforced the idea of security and presented various ways of identifying, resolving, and preventing vulnerabilities.

The capstone project below encompasses many of the knowledge and abilities I learned during the Computer Science program. First, it contains a code review to demonstrate my abilities in debugging and collaborating with team members while focusing on concise and clear communication. It also showcases my skill in evaluating and designing applications using algorithmic principles and computer science best practices with the goal of solving a specific problem. By expanding the original artifact by using multiple modern languages and frameworks, the project demonstrates my ability to use well-founded and innovative techniques, skills, and tools in computing practices to implement the desired solution. Moreover, I observed the most common vulnerabilities of each language and framework used in this project to prevent attacks and exploits, which demonstrates a security mindset, anticipating possible exploits and mitigating design flaws to ensure privacy and enhanced security of data and resources.

## Artifact
Final submission for the class CS 260 - Data Structures and Algorithms, submitted on August, 2020. The original code can be found [here](https://github.com/zambiazzi89/CS260).

### Description
The project consisted of C++ programs store and perform operations on a CSV file that contained records of bids. The data structures used in this project were linked list, vector, hash table, and binary search tree. Furthermore, algorithms such as binary tree in-order traversal and vector quick sort were also implemented. Lastly, the program displayed the time elapsed in each operation.

## Code Review

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/-WouezYAYBc" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Enhancements
The enhanced full-stack application can be found [here](https://github.com/zambiazzi89/CS499).

### Justification
I chose this artifact for the three categories below because it permitted multiple types of enhancements to showcase different skills relevant to each category. My plan to enhance ths artifact consisted of translating it from C++ to JavaScript, implementing additional algorithms, and creating a server and database to store the dataset and allow for persistent changes.
- **Software Design and Engineering:** To translate my project from C++ to JavaScript, I created a web application using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and React.js. The application implements all the data structures and algorithms from my initial project, the only difference being the use of arrays instead of vectors, since, unlike C++, JavaScript does not have built-in vectors. This enhancement showcases my skills and abilities to translate, design and engineer a front-end application using different languages and frameworks.
- **Algorithm and Data Structures:** I expanded the algorithms in the original application by implementing a merge sort functionality for the array, a reverse list functionality for the linked list, a button to change the hash salt used in the hash table, and the pre-, in-, and post-order traversals for the binary search tree. This enhancement showcases my knowledge of data structures and algorithms and my skills and abilities to expand their complexities.
- **Database:** Since the original artifact did not contain a database, it would allow me to implement a full-stack application from scratch. The artifact was improved by making it possible for users to access the dataset and make persistent changes to it. This enhancement showcases my skills and abilities to create a full-stack application using a MERN (MongoDB, Express, React.js, Node.js) stack.

### Objectives Met
With the enhancements listed above, the objectives planned in the beginning of this course were met.
- **Software Design and Engineering:** As planned, the application was successfully translated from C++ to JavaScript. Additionally, I used other languages and frameworks to build a complete user interface to improve user experience.
- **Algorithm and Data Structures:** I expanded each of the data structures' functionalities by implementing at least one additional algorithm. The only difference from my initial plan was to implement a functionality to modify the hash salt used in the hash table. I opted for this functionality because it shows the importance of choosing efficient hash salt values when implementing the hash algorithm to calculate the keys of the elements in the hash table.
- **Database:** I created a database for the dataset containing the information of bids used in the original project. However, instead of focusing on storing the time elapsed for the data structure algorithms, as I originally proposed in the beginning of this course, I decided to focus on performing CRUD operations on the database. I made this change because it ensured that the most common operations used in REST APIs were implemented.

### Reflection
- **Software Design and Engineering:** The first challenge I faced when working on this project was defining the design and structure of the application. I already had experience in using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and React.js in previous projects. However, working on this capstone helped me practice and improve my skills in these languages. For instance, it required me to learn new concepts regarding CSS transitions, JavaScript asynchronous functions, and React.js Hooks.
- **Algorithm and Data Structures:** This project also helped me differentiate the strategies used in the implementation of algorithms according to the language being used. For instance, unliked C++, JavaScript does not have pointers. Therefore, some changes might have to be made to the logic of algorithms due to the difference between pass-by-value and pass-by-reference operations.
- **Database:** There were multiple obstacles I faced when implementing the backend of this application and its communication with the frontend. These challenges include handling asynchronous function calls and catching API errors. I also had to relearn how to resolve CORS (Cross-Origin Resource Sharing) errors when fetching data from the backend. These challenges were valuable to my future career as a software developer, as they strengthen my problem-solving skills and are examples of situations that can occur in real scenarios.
